OF SYRIAN REFUGEES FLEE INTO
TURKEY TO ESCAPE ATTACKS BY THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
WE TALK WITH SYRIA'S OPPOSITION
LEADER WHO ARGUES U.S. MILITARY
ASSISTANCE TO MODERATE REBEL
FORCES, WILL BE USED TO FIGHT
THE ASSAD REGIME NOT JUST THE
EXTREME MILITANTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY,
PROTESTERS CONVERGE ON WALL
STREET TO CALL ATTENTION TO
CLIMATE CHANGE.
AS SOME INVESTORS PLEDGE TO
ABANDON THEIR SUPPORT OF FOSSIL
FUELS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, AS EFFORTS TO
CONTROL EBOLA HAVE SUCCEEDED FOR
NOW IN SENEGAL AND NIGERIA,
CASES IN LIBERIA CONTINUE TO
DOUBLE EVERY TWENTY DAYS.
WHAT'S WORKING AND WHAT'S NOT IN
WEST AFRICA?
>> SIERRA LEONE AN LINE
BERIA BOTH HAVE COME OUT OF
CIVIL WARS SO INFRASTRUCTURE
IS WEAK.
SYSTEMS ARE WEAK.
FOR ANY COUNTRY.
AN OUTBREAK LIKE THIS WOULD
BE A CHALLENGE.
BUT FOR THESE COUNTRIES IT'S
VERY
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE
TODAY RULED OUT ACCEPTING IRAN'S
HELP AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE
FORCES IF IT MEANS EASING CURBS
ON THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
REUTERS AND OTHERS REPORTED
SENIOR OFFICIALS IN TEHRAN HAD
FLOATED THE IDEA.
BUT, A SPOKESMAN FOR PRESIDENT
OBAMA REJECTED MILITARY
COOPERATION, SHARING
INTELLIGENCE OR ANY SORT OF
NUCLEAR TRADE.
>> Ifill: THE MAN WHO ALLEGEDLY
JUMPED THE WHITE HOUSE FENCE AND
MADE IT INSIDE THE FRONT DOOR
WITH A KNIFE HAD MORE THAN 800
ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION IN HIS CAR.
THAT WORD CAME TODAY AS OMAR
GONZALEZ MADE HIS FIRST COURT
APPEARANCE SINCE THE FRIDAY
NIGHT INCIDENT.
A FEDERAL PROSECUTOR ALSO SAID
GONZALEZ WAS ARRESTED IN JULY
WITH A SNIPER RIFLE AND A MAP
MARKING THE WHITE HOUSE.
SEPARATELY, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JOSH EARNEST CONFIRMED
TODAY THAT SECURITY UPGRADES ARE
UNDER REVIEW.
>> THERE WILL BE A PRETTY BROAD
LOOK AT A WIDE RANGE OF WHITE
HOUSE SECURITY PROCEDURES TO
ENSURE THAT THE SECRET SERVICE
IS ACCOMPLISHING THEIR MISSION
OF PROTECTING THE PRESIDENT AND
THE FIRST FAMILY BUT ALSO
PROTECTING THE STATUS OF THE
WHITE HOUSE AS THE PEOPLE'S
HOUSE.
>> Ifill: EARNEST WOULD NOT SAY
IF THE SECRET SERVICE MIGHT
EXPAND THE SECURITY ZONE AROUND
THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: THREE AFGHAN ARMY
OFFICERS WHO DISAPPEARED IN
MASSACHUSETTS HAVE BEEN FOUND AT
THE CANADIAN BORDER.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE POLICE SAID
TODAY THE MEN WERE DETAINED AT
THE NIAGARA FALLS CROSSING.
THEY WERE LAST SEEN SATURDAY
NEAR A MILITARY BASE IN CAPE COD
WHERE THEY WERE TRAINING.
AUTHORITIES SAID THEY DID NOT
BELIEVE THE AFGHANS POSED ANY
THREAT.
>> Ifill: IN EASTERN UKRAINE,
THERE WERE SIGNS OF PROGRESS AS
GOVERNMENT TROOPS AND PRO-
RUSSIAN REBELS BEGAN PULLING
HEAVY ARTILLERY FROM FRONTLINE
POSITIONS.
IT'S PART OF AN AGREEMENT
REACHED EARLY SATURDAY.
DESPITE THE DEAL, SHELLING
CONTINUED THROUGH THE WEEKEND
NEAR THE AIRPORT IN DONETSK, AND
SEVERAL MORE UKRAINIAN TROOPS
WERE KILLED.
>> Woodruff: FIREFIGHTERS IN
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA BRACED TODAY
FOR THE WEATHER TO TAKE A TURN
FOR THE WORSE.
HOTTER TEMPERATURES AND HIGHER
WINDS FAVORED THE KING FIRE,
BURNING 60 MILES EAST OF
SACRAMENTO, NEAR POLLOCK PINES.
IT'S JUST 18% CONTAINED.
THE FIRE HAS SCORCHED 137 SQUARE
MILES AND DESTROYED MORE THAN 30
BUILDINGS, BUT SUNDAY'S WET
WEATHER SLOWED ITS ADVANCE.
A FEDERAL BANK FOUND GUILTY FOR
SUICIDE BOMBINGS.
A JURY WILL DECIDE DAMAGES.
>> THE FIRST TARGETED
ACTIONS OF TAX BENEFITS FOR
SO-CALLED CORPORATE
INVERSION, THE PRACTICE OF
MOVING CORPORATE CONTROL
OVERSEAS TO AVOID U.S.
TAXES.
AWALL STREET, STOCKS
WERE WEIGHED DOWN BY WORRIES
OVER CHINA'S GROWTH AND A
WEAK HOUSING REPORT
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 107 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,172; THE NASDAQ FELL 52
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,527; THE
S&P 500 DROPPED 16 POINTS TO
FINISH AT 1,994.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
AS FEARS OF CLIMATE CHANGE RISE,
INVESTORS MOVE AWAY FROM FOSSIL
FUELS.
A CONVERSATION WITH THE HEAD OF
MONEY POURS IN TO THE RACE FOR
FLORIDA'S GOVERNOR.
AFGHAN LEADERS REACH A POWER-
SHARING DEAL.
AND WHAT'S WORKING AND NOT IN
THE FIGHT TO COMBAT EBOLA IN
WEST AFIRCA.
>> Ifill: MORE THAN 100 WORLD
LEADERS ARE GATHERING AT THE
U.N. TOMORROW TO DISCUSS THE
IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE AND TO
TRY TO MOVE TOWARD NEW
AGREEMENT.
BUT POTENTIAL ACTION FROM
GOVERNMENTS OR EVEN A LACK OF IT
IS ONLY PART OF THE STORY.
MAJOR VOICES IN BUSINESS,
PHILANTY,
ENVIRONMENTAL MOVEMENT ARE
ANNINTIVES
THIS WEEK HOPING TO MOBILIZE
PUBLIC ATTENTION.
HUNDREDS OF ACTIVISTS POURED
ONTO THE STREETS OF NEW YORK'S
FINANCIAL DISTRICT, SNARLING
DOWNTOWN TRAFFIC TO PROTEST
CAPITALISM'S ROLE IN CLIMATE
CHANGE.
>> WALL STREET INVESTS IN ALL
THE POLLUTING, WASTEFUL, TOXIC,
DESTRUCTIVE AND DISRUPTIVE
INDUSTRIES THAT ARE CAUSING THIS
CRISIS.
WALL STREET ITSELF IS PROFITING
FROM THE DESTRUCTION OF THIS
PLANET AND ITS HUMAN AND NATURAL
RESOURCES.
SO WE HAVE TO STOP THEM.
>> Ifill: A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
LENT HIS WEIGHT TO THE CAUSE,
OPENING WHAT ORGANIZERS ARE
CALLING CLIMATE WEEK.
HE UNDERLINED FINDINGS THAT 2013
SAW THE LARGEST SINGLE-YEAR
INCREASE IN CARBON POLLUTION IN
20 YEARS.
>> IT DOESN'T COST MORE TO DEAL
WITH CLIMATE CHANGE.IGNORE IT AD
TO PUT OUR HEAD IN THE SAND AND
CONTINUE DOWN THIS ROAD OF
OBFUSCATION AND AVOIDANCE.
AND WE NEED TO MAKE THAT CLEAR
TO PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: ALL OF THIS FOLLOWED A
MUCH LARGER, WORLDWIDE PROTEST
ON SUNDAY.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
ACTIVISTS TOOK TO THE STREETS OF
MANHATTAN.
THEY WERE JOINED BY HOLLYWOOD
CELEBRITIES AND BY FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT AL GORE, NEW YORK CITY
MAYOR BILL DE BLASIO, AND UNITED
NATIONS SECRETARY GENERAL BAN
KI-MOON.
>> IF WE DO NOT TAKE ACTION NOW,
WE WILL HAVE TO PAY MUCH MORE.
THEY HAVE RAISED THEIR VOICE,
THEY HAVE SHOWN THEIR POWER TO
CHANGE THE MINDSET OF PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: THERE WERE ALSO
MARCHES IN LONDON, PARIS,
BERLIN, RIO DE JANEIRO, AND
MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
THE PROTESTS COINCIDE WITH
TOMORROW'S U.N. CLIMATE SUMMIT.
AT THE SAME TIME, ACTIVISTS GOT
A BOOST FROM PHILANTHROPISTS WHO
VOWED TO STOP INVESTING IN
CLIMATE WARMING FOSSIL FUELS
LIKE COAL AND OIL.
THE ROCKEFELLER BROTHERS FUND,
BUILT ON THE FAMILY'S OIL
FORTUNE, WAS THE LARGEST
ORGANIZATION TO ANNOUNCE ITS
DROPPING SUCH INVESTMENTS FROM
ITS PORTFOLIO.
>> Ifill: IN ALL, 50 FOUNDATIONS
WITH $50 BILLION IN ASSETS
PLEDGED TODAY TO DIVEST OVER THE
NEXT FIVE YEARS.
ADVISING THOSE FOUNDATIONS WAS
DIVEST-INVEST PHILANTHROPY.
ITS DIRECTOR, JENNA NICHOLAS,
JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME.
>> SO EXPLAIN TO OUR VIEWERS
WHAT EXACTLY IT MEANS TO
DIVEST?
>> WHAT IT MEANS TO DIVEST
IS WE'RE SEEING THIS AS
ENDOWMENTS AN INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE COMING ON BOARD TO
DO THIS IS TO REMOVE ONE'S
HOLDINGS FROM FOSSIL FUEL
COMPANIES.
THERE IS AN INITIATIVE
CALLED THE CARBON TRACKER
200.
FOR MANY INSTITUTIONS AND
INDIVIDUALS ARE STARTING
WITH THE CARBON TRACKER 200,
THE 200 OF THE WORST FOSSIL
FUEL COMPANIES IN THE WORLD.
AND THEN MANY ARE GOING MUCH
FURTHER.
SO THIS IS COAL, OIL, GAS.
AND THEN WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
PARALLELLING THIS SIDE WITH
THE INVEST SIDE.
AND IT IS INVESTING IN CLEAN
ENERGY SOLUTIONS WHETHER
IT'S ENERGY EFFICIENCY,
RENEWABLE ENERGY, AGO AGO,
WATER PURIFICATION
TECHNOLOGY AND SUCH LIKE.
>> WELL, LET'S FOCUS ON THE
DIVEST SIDE FOR A MOMENT.
IS GOAL HERE TO INCUR
ECONOMIC COSTS ON THE
COMPANIES YOU ARE DIVESTING
FROM OR JUST SHAME?
>> WELL, A BIG PART OF IT,
AND THE BIG MOTIVATION FOR A
NUMBER OF THE INDIVIDUALS
AND ENDOWMENTS THAT ARE
COMING ON BOARD HERE IS
REALLY THIS CASE BEING MADE
AROUND STRAND ADD SETS WHICH
IS REALLY THERE IS AN
OVERVALUATION OF THE PRICE
OF THESE FOSSIL FUEL
COMPANIES.
AND THAT REALLY IF WE WERE
TO BURN ALL THE FOSSIL FUELS
IN THE WORLD, THAT THE
IMPACT THAT THAT WOULD HAVE
ON TEMPERATURE RISES IS SO
MUCH THAT IT D
SENSE FROM A FINANCIAL
PERSPECTIVE TO CONTINUE TO
INVEST.
>> SO A BIG PART OF IT IS
THE FINANCIAL CASE THAT'S
BEING MADE FOR DIVESTMENT,
AND ANOTHER PART OF IT IS
THAT SHAMING PIECE.
AND TO REALLY TRY TO PUT
PRESSURE ON THE FOSSIL FUEL
COMPANIES TO INVEST IN
RESERB AND DEVELOPMENT
ALTERNATIVES AND TO REALLY
MOVE IN ANOTHER DIRECTION
FOR THE FUTURE WE HAVE
SEARCH CAMPAIGNS INVOLVING
APARTHEID ACROSS SOUTH
AFRICA, THE-- COMPANY AND
LOOKING BACK ON THEM NOW,
IT'S UNCLEAR WHETHER THEY
DIDN'T KILL THOSE
INDIVIDUALS, THEY DIDN'T
STOP THOSE INDUSTRIES FROM
PRODUCING THOSE PRODUCTS BUT
IN THE CASE OF APPEAR
ADVERTISE, YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT FREEDOM AND IN THE
CASE OF TOBACCO, WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HEALTH.
WHAT ARE WE TALKING ABOUT
HERE?
WHAT IS THE IMMEDIATE
BENEFIT?
>> A NUMBER OF THINGS.
JUST ON THAT POINT ABOUT
MACKING THE PARALLEL TO
APPEAR ADVERTISE, SOUTH
AFRICA, IT'S BEEN REALLY
POWERFUL, DESMOND TUTU HAS
SPOKEN OUT REALLY DRAWING
THE PARALLELS BETWEEN
DIVESTING FROM APPEAR
ADVERTISE AND FOSSIL FUELS.
AND IS A GREAT SPOKESPERSON
FOR THE DIVEST INVEST
CAMPAIGN.
A BIG PART OF IT HERE IS
SOCIAL JUSTICE, CLIMATE
JUSTICE, ECONOMIC JUSTICE
AND REALLY SEEING THE
INTERCONNECTEDNESS OF ALL OF
THE ISSUES THAT ARISE.
THIS ISN'T JUST AN
ENVIRONMENTAL CAMPAIGN, BUT
REALLY SEEING THE
RAMIFICATIONS THAT THIS HAS
ON A SYSTEMIC LEVEL ACROSS
THE WHOLE OF SOCIETY.
SO AND NOT REALLY BEING JUST
ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
BUT REALLY THE SYSTEMS THAT
PLAY AT LARGE.
AND SO A BIG PART OF THIS IS
SAYING THAT BUSINESS IS
USUAL, NO LONGER THE WAY
THAT WE CAN BE OPERATING
MOVING FORWARD.
>> AND YET, UNIVERSITIES
LIKE HARVARD, FOR INSTANCE,
HAVE SAID THIS IS NOT THE
WAY THAT THEY WANT TO AFFECT
THEIR ENDOWMENT.
THEY FIGURE IT WOULD COST
THEM.
AND THAT'S REALLY NOT WHAT
ENDOWMENTS EXIST FOR.
AND THEY'VE RESISTED DURING
THIS MOVEMENT.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THEM?
>> WELL, IT HAS BEEN A
FASCINATING FEW MONTHS IN
TERM OF THIS.
ON THE OTHER HAND WE HAVE
STANDFORD UNIVERSITY, MY
ALMA MATER THAT HAS COME ON
BOARD AND CAN TAKING A STEP
AND STARTING WITH DIVESTING
FROM COAL AND SO I THINK
THERE IS A LOT OF DEBATE
GOING ON HERE.
AND I THINK THAT HARVARD'S
STATEMENT TO NOT ENGAGE IN
THIS HAS LEAD TO A LOT OF
ENGAGEMENT FROM STUDENTS AND
ALUMNI AND MANY LEADERS AND
FINANCIAL LEADERS SAYING
THAT ACTUALLY THE FINANCIAL
ARGUMENT IS SAYING AROUND
NOT DIVESTING IS NOT AS
STRONG AS THE FINANCIAL
ARGUMENT FOR DIVESTING.
SO I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
A REALLY INTERESTING PROCESS
TO SEE HOW THE NEXT FEW
MONTHS PLAY OUT.
AND OUR HOPE THAT THE $50
BILLION ANNOUNCEMENT MADE
TODAY AND HAVING LEADERS
LIKE STANDFORD UNIVERSITY
AND THE ROCKEFELLER
BROTHER'S FUND ON BOARD WILL
REALLY HELP TO DRIVE MORE OF
THESE CONVERSATIONS
HAPPENING IN OTHER
INSTITUTIONS AND
UNIVERSITIES.
>> HOW DO WE KNOW THAT
SO-CALLED SUSTAINABLE
INVESTING IS NOT JUST A FAD?
>> SO A BIG PART OF THIS,
AND REALLY WE'VE BEEN SEEING
THIS, THIS ISN'T JUST A
RECENT INITIATIVE THERE HAVE
BEEN INSTITUTIONS THAT HAVE
BEEN DOING SUSTAINABLE
INVESTING FOR A WHILE, THE
CALVERT FUND IN THE LATE
1970s STARTED ONE OF THE
PIONEERING SUSTAINABLE
INVESTMENT FUNDS.
AND MANY OTHERS OVER THE
YEARS THAT HAVE JOINED THE I
ANYBODIATIVE FOR AROUND
SUSTAINABLE INVESTING.
AND NOW A LOT OF BANKS
JPMORGAN, GOLDMAN SACHS, UPS,
CREDIT SUISSE ARE DEVELOPING
SUSTAINABLE INVESTING
PRACTICES.
A LOT OF CLIENTS OF THESE
BANKS ARE COMING TO THEM AND
SAYING THAT THEY WANT TO
HAVE MORE SUSTAINABLE
INVESTING OPTIONS.
THIS REALLY SEEMS TO BE
SOMETHING THAT'S HERE TO
STAY.
AND A BIG PART OF THAT.
AND A BIG PART OF THE
EMPHASIS THAT WE'VE BEEN
MAKING WITH THIS MOVEMENT OF
IT NOT JUST BEING
INSTITUTIONS BUT REALLY
INDIVIDUALS IN GENERAL IS
THAT REALLY THE OPPORTUNITY
TO BE ABLE TO HAVE AN
ALIGNMENT BETWEEN VALUES AND
THE INVESTMENTST THESE
INDIVIDUALS AND INSTITUTIONS
ARE MAKING IS SOMETHING THAT
CUTS DOWN TO THE REALLY CORE
ESSENCE FOR A LOT OF
INDIVIDUALS AND INSTITUTIONS,
SO IT SEEMS TO BE WE'VE
REACHED A TIPPING POINT AND
THIS REALLY IS A MOVEMENT
THAT IS HERE TO STAY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU,
>> Woodruff: AS PRESIDENT OBAMA
READIES TO MAKE THE CASE AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP LATER
THIS WEEK AT THE UNITED NATIONS.
THE SITUATION ON THE GROUND
APPEARS MORE DESPERATE.
BY THE THOUSANDS, SYRIAN
REFUGEES  KEPT POURING OVER THE
BORDER INTO TURKEY TODAY.
TRYING TO ESCAPE FIGHTING NEAR A
KEY BORDER TOWN.
SOME ESTIMATES SAID MORE THAN
130,000 PEOPLE, MOSTLY KURDS,
HAVE CROSSED IN THE LAST FOUR
DAYS.
IN THEIR WAKE, ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS AND SYRIAN KURDISH
MILITIA BATTLED FOR CONTROL OF
KOBANE, KNOWN ALSO BY ITS ARABIC
NAME: AYN-AL-ARAB.
SEPARATELY, TURKISH S
CLASHED WITH TURKISH SECURITY
FORCES YESTERDAY AND AGAIN
TODAY, AS THEY SOUGHT TO ENTER
SYRIA TO HELP THEIR FELLOW
KURDS.
AND, SOME SYRIAN KURDISH MEN
WHO HAD BROUGHT THEIR FAMILIES
TO SAFETY QUEUED UP TO GO BACK
TO SYRIA.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
RETURNING BACK TO FIGHT.
WE WILL FIGHT THERE UNTIL THE
LAST DROP OF OUR BLOOD.
IF WE LOSE KOBANI IT MEANS WE
LOSE THE REGION.
>> Woodruff: AMID THE PANICKED
EXODUS, A TURKISH DEPUTY PRIME
MINISTER SAID MORE THAN A
QUARTER OF THE REGION'S PEOPLE
HAVE ALREADY FLED, HE EXPECTED
MANY MORE.
>> ( translated ): THE TOTAL
POPULATION IN THE AREA IS AROUND
400,000 AND WE THINK THAT SOME
OF THOSE PEOPLE MOVED TO OTHER
PLACES INSIDE SYRIA BUT WE STILL
EXPECT AN INFLUX OF HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: THE WEEKEND ALSO
BROUGHT NEWS THAT 49 TURKISH
HOSTAGES HELD BY ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS HAD BEEN FREED.
TURKISH OFFICIALS SAY NO RANSOM
WAS PAID, NOR WAS IT A MILITARY
OPERATION, BUT PRESIDENT RECEP
TAYYIP ERDOGAN DID NOT RULE OUT
THAT A PRISONER SWAP OCCURRED.
>> ( translated ): A SWAP MIGHT
HAVE TAKEN PLACE OR NOT.
49 CITIZENS HAVE RETURNED TO
TURKEY.
WE WOULDN'T TRADE THIS FOR THE
WORLD.
THIS IS NOT AN ISSUE THAT WE
DISCUSS.
EVEN IF THERE WAS A SWAP, AS A
PRESIDENT, I WOULD THINK, THE
LIVES OF 49 CITIZENS ARE
IRREPLACEABLE.
>> Woodruff: UP TO NOW, TURKEY
HAS REJECTED A MAJOR ROLE IN THE
COALITION AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP IN IRAQ AND,
POTENTIALLY, SYRIA.
THIS MORNING, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY SUGGESTED ANKARA'S
ATTITUDE SHOULD CHANGE.
>> THEIR BORDER IS THREATENED.
THEIR SECURITY IS THREATENED.
AND THEY ARE COMMITTED TO DOING
THIS, BUT THEY FIRST NEEDED TO
DEAL WITH THEIR HOSTAGE
SITUATION.
NOW THE PROOF WILL BE IN THE
PUDDING, AS I SAID, AND WE WILL
WORK WITH THEM VERY CLOSELY IN
THE DAYS AHEAD.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE ISLAMIC
STATE'S CHIEF SPOKESMAN CAME A
CALL FOR MILITANTS TO TARGET
WESTERN NATIONS WHO JOIN THE
FIGHT.
>> ( translated ): IF YOU CAN
KILL A DISBELIEVING AMERICAN OR
EUROPEAN, ESPECIALLY THE
SPITEFUL AND FILTHY FRENCH, OR
AN AUSTRALIAN, OR A CANADIAN, OR
ANY OTHER DISBELIEVER, INCLUDING
CITIZENS OF THE COUNTRIES THAT
HAVE WAGED A COALITION AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE, THEN RELY
UPON GOD, AND KILL THEM IN ANY
MANNER YOU CAN.
>> Woodruff: WITHIN HOURS, A
SPLINTER GROUP IN ALGERIA POSTED
VIDEO OF A KIDNAPPED FRENCHMAN.
HE SAID HE'LL BE KILLED UNLESS
FRANCE QUITS THE U.S.D AIR
CAMPAIGN IN IRAQ.
AS FOR THE GROUND WAR, PRESIDENT
OBAMA SIGNED A BILL FRIDAY,
INCLUDING $500 MILLION TO TRAIN
AND ARM A REBEL FACTION THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY TO FIGHT ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES.
SENIOR U.S. MILITARY LEADERS
HAVE SAID IT COULD TAKE UP TO
ONE YEAR TO TRAIN THE FIRST
5,000 FIGHTERS; AND SOME
LAWMAKERS, INCLUDING REPUBLICAN
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN HAVE
QUESTIONED THE PRACTICALITY OF
HAVING THE F.S.A. FOCUS SOLELY
ON THE ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS, AND
NOT ON THE ASSAD GOVERNMENT.
THE CHIEF OF THE PRINCIPAL
POLITICAL OPPOSITION GROUP THE
SYRIAN NATIONAL COALITION IS
HADI AL-BAHRA.
HE TOOK OVER IN EARLY JULY AND
WILL ADDRESS THE UNITED NATIONS
GENERAL ASSEMBLY ON WEDNESDAY.
THIS MORNING, AL-BAHRA SAT DOWN
WITH CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IN
NEW YORK.
>> MR. AL BARRA, THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENT OBAMA, THE U.S.
CONGRESS HAVE NOW COMMITTED
TO TRAIN AND EQUIP THE
REBELS YOU REPRESENT AND
ASSIST IN OTHER WAYS
INCLUDING AIR STRIKES, WHAT
DO YOU NEED MOST IMMEDIATELY
AND HOW SOON.
>> WE NEED A CLEAR STRATEGY,
CLEAR PLANNING ON HOW TO
START THIS PROGRAM AS FAST
AS POSSIBLE.
WHEN WE HAVE EQUIPMENT
NEEDED TO FIGHT THIS WAR, SO
ACTUALLY THIS IS ONE OF THE
MAIN PURPOSE OF OUR VISIT TO
THE U.S. RIGHT NOW, TO HAVE
A PROGRAM.
WE NEED WEAPONS SYSTEMS
WHICH CAN COMPETE WITH
WHATEVER ARE IN THE HANDS OF
ISIL FORCES NOT TO BE
SUPPLIED WITH INFERIOR
WEAPONS SYSTEMS AM SO WE
NEED TO FIGHT A WAR WHERE
REALLY WE ARE IN EQUAL WITH
WEAPONS AND TRAINING.
>> Warner: HOW SOON DOW WANT
TO SEE U.S. AIR STRIKES
EMPLOYED.
>> THEY SHOULD BE EMPLOYED
AS SOON AS POSSIBLEMENT
BECAUSE AS YOU WILL SEE IN
THE PAST WEEK, THERE ARE
THOUSANDS OF REFUGEES WHO
HAVE FLED FROM KURDISH
VILLAGES TOWARDS TURKEY.
THIS MORNING I HAD A CALL,
MORE THAN 130,000 REFUGEES.
>> Warner: YOU ARE REALLY
ENGAGED IN A TWO FRONT WAR.
YOU'RE FIGHTING NOT ONLY THE
ICE IM-- ISLAMIC STATE OR
ISIS, YOU'RE FIGHTING THE
S
ONCE YOU GET THIS NEW
TRAINING AND EQUIPPING AND
WEAPONS AND YOU HAVE THE
BENEFIT OF U.S. AIR STRIKES
ARE YOU GOING TO FOCUS ALL
OF THAT AGAINST THE
EXTREMIST FORCES OR ARE YOU
ALSO GOING TO USE THAT NEW
CAPABILITY AGAINST THE ASSAD
GOVERNMENT.
>> WE DON'T HAVE THE FREEDOM
OF CHOICE OR OPTIONS.
WE WILL BE FIGHTING AND
DEFENDING YOURSELF AGAINST
WHOEVER REALLY IS HAVING
OFFENSIVE AGAINST YOU.
SO WE WILL BE FOR SURE
FIGHTING THE TWO FRONTS AT
THE SAME THING.
BUT MORE RESOURCES WILL BE
GIVEN RIGHT NOW ON ISIS
FRONT BECAUSE REALLY IT IS A
REAL THREAT AND CREATING A
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
>> Warner: BUT GIVEN THE
U.S. DESIRE TO STAY OUT OF
THE CIVIL WAR BETWEEN YOUR
FORCES AND THE ASSAD
GOVERNMENT, YOU'RE NOT
MAKING ANY COMMITMENT TO NOT
USE SOME OF THIS INCREASED
CAPABLE AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT FORCES.
>> YOU NEED TO GO BACK TO
THE ROOT OF THE ISSUE.
THE ROOT OF THE ISSUE, THAT
YOU HAVE A DICTATORSHIP IN
SYRIA WHICH BUILT UP A
STRATEGY OF USING TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS AND TERRORISM
IN ORDER TO STAY IN POWER.
SO THEY ARE THE MAIN CAUSE
OF THIS ISSUE.
IF WE PUT THEM ON THE SIDE
AND VIEW ONLY THE SYMPTOMS
YOU WILL HAVE THE CAUSE
ALREADY IN PLACE WHICH WILL
PRODUCE MORE TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS IN TIME.
>> Warner: ARE YOUR FORCES
POSITIONED TO MOVE IN AND
SEIZE ISIL, ISIS HELD
TERRITORY IF U.S. AIR
STRIKES ARE EMPLOYED TO
WEAKEN THEM?
>> SURE.
AS WE SPEAK NOW THERE IS A
WHOLE FRONT IN ALEPPO NEAR
MY TOWN WHERE ISIL FORCES
TURN IN FRONT OF THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY UNITS SO WE ARE
FIGHTING THEM ALREADY ON THE
GROUND.
>> Warner: NOW THERE IS
CONCERN IN THE UNITED STATES
THAT RIGHT NOW THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY, YOUR FORCES,
ARE FIGHTING ALONG SIDE THE
AL-NUSRA FRONT WHICH HAS AS
ITS TARGET U.S. AND WESTERN
INTERESTS.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THAT?
>> THE FREE SYRIAN ARMY ARE
BY THEMSELVES STANDING ALONE
UNDER ONE COMMAND AND
CONTROL WHILE AL-NUSRA
FORCES ARE SEPARATE FROM
THESE COMMAND AND CONTROL.
>> ARE YOU DENYING THAT YOU
ALL ARE COOPERATING,
COORDINATING IN SOME FASHION
WITH AL-NUSRA AT THIS
MOMENT?
>> IT IS A FACT ON THE
GROUND, IF AL-NUSRA HAS ONE
AREA, AND WE HAVE ADVANCES
WITHIN OTHER AREAS, THERE IS
NO-- BUT FIGHT FROM THE
GROUND, EITHER THEY DON'T
HIT THESE FORCES OR THIS
FORCE DOESN'T HIT THEM.
YOU MAKE DECISION ON THE
BATTLE ACCORDING TO THE
URGENCY OF THE MATTER.
>> Warner: HOW LIKELY THE
U.S. AIR STRIKES AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC FRONT WILL ALSO
BENEFIT ASSAD FORCES.
>> ASSAD FORCES TRIES TO
FILL THE GAP, ISIL FORCES,
THEY TRY TO GO AND FIGHT
THESE AREAS.
BUT I DON'T THINK THEY WILL
HAVE A CHANCE BECAUSE WE
HAVE PREPARED OUR OWN FORCES
TO DEFEND THESE GAPS.
THIS WE WILL MAKE SURE BY
OUR OWN FORCES WHILE DOW THE
AIR ATTACKS THAT OUR GROUND
FORCES WILL BE ADVANCING ON
THE GROUND AND DOING THE
GROUNDWORK.
BUT THIS WOULD BE SOCIAL AND
ECONOMICAL PROGRAM TO GOVERN
THE AREAS WHICH ISIL WILL
WITHDRAW FROM.
>> Warner: AFTER PLEADING
WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY FOR TWO TO THREE
YEARS FOR HELP, HOW
CONFIDENT ARE YOU YOU NOW
HAVE IT?
>> I THINK NOW THAT THE
WHOLE WORLD AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY HAS
REALIZED THE REAL THREAT
THAT EXTREMIST ORGANIZATIONS
SUBMIT TO ISIL WILL BE ON
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY,
SO THE WAY WE LOOK AT IT,
THAT WE ARE NOT JOINING THE
COALITION, THE COALITION IS
JOINING OUR WAR AGAINST
EXTREMISTS AND TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS.
>> Warner: HOW LONG WILL YOU
NEED THE ACTIVE SUPPORT OF
THE KBROONTED STATES AND
MEMBERS OF THE COALITION TO
FINISH THE JOB?
>> I EXPECT IF THEY DO IT
RIGHT, ONE YEAR YOU SEE
IMMEDIATE RESULTS.
YOU SEE A DEGRADING OF ISIS
AND WITHIN TWO YEARS MORE
STABILIZATION AND I EXPECT
IF WE DO IT CORRECTLY,
WITHIN THREE YEARS WE WILL
FORGET ABOUT THE
ORGANIZATION OF ISIL.
AS YOU KNOW, WE FOUGHT
AGAINST IT 15 YEARS AGO BUT
STILL THEY EXIST UNTIL NOW
BECAUSE THE APPROACH WAS
WRONG.
WE NEED TO HAVE THE RIGHT
APPROACH FROM NOW FROM THE
START.
>> MR. AL BARRA, THANK YOU-- AL
BAHRA, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO THE
MIDTERM ELECTIONS AND A CAMPAIGN
THAT COULD WIND UP BEING THE
MOST EXPENSIVE IN THE COUNTRY
THE FLORIDA GOVERNOR'S RACE.
IT'S ALREADY ONE OF THE MOST
COMPLICATED.
CHARLIE CRIST, THE FORMER
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR IS NOW
RUNNING AS A DEMOCRAT AND TRYING
TO DEFEAT INCUMBENT RICK SCOTT,
A TEA PARTY-BACKED REPUBLICAN.
TONIGHT'S STORY WAS PRODUCED IN
COLLABORATION WITH WUCF ORLANDO.
THE REPORTER IS STEVE MORT.
>> Reporter: AT A CAMPAIGN STOP
AT AN ORLANDO BARBEQUE
RESTAURANT, DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE
CHARLIE CRIST LOOKED HUNGRY FOR
SUPPORT IN THE RACE FOR FLORIDA
GOVERNOR.
>> THIS IS GREAT.
>> Reporter: IT WAS A TYPICAL
CAMPAIGN STOP, COMPLETE WITH
SIGNS, HOB-NOBBING LOCAL
POLITICIANS AND PLENTY OF
SOUTHERN HOSPITALITY BUT ALL FOR
A CANDIDATE WHO IS FAR FROM
TYPICAL.
JUST FOUR YEARS AGO, CRIST
SERVED AS THE STATE'S REPUBLICAN
GOVERNOR.
NOW, HE'S TRYING TO PULL OFF
SOMETHING THAT'S NEVER BEEN DONE
BEFORE IN FLORIDA HISTORY SERVE
ANOTHER TERM AS GOVERNOR AFTER
SWITCHING PARTIES.
CRIST LEFT THE GOP AFTER LOSING
A PRIMARY BATTLE FOR THE U.S.
SENATE TO MARCO RUBIO IN 2010.
IT WAS THE TEA PARTY THAT
LAUNCHED RUBIO INTO OFFICE AND
IT'S THE TEA PARTY CRIST BLAMES
FOR WHAT HE SEES AS THE DECLINE
OF THE ONCE GRAND OLD PARTY.
>> THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IN
AMERICA HAS CHANGED DRAMATICALLY
OVER THE PAST FOUR OR FIVE
YEARS.
THE TEA PARTY ADVENT REALLY
BROUGHT ABOUT A HARD RIGHT SHIFT
TO THE PARTY.
AND JEB BUSH, MY PREDECESSOR
SAID IT BETTER THAN I CAN.
HE SAID TODAY'S REPUBLICAN PARTY
IS PERCEIVED TO BE ANTI-WOMEN,
ANTI-MINORITY, ANTI-IMMIGRANT,
ANTI-EDUCATION, ANTI-
ENVIRONMENT.
I MEAN THE LIST GOES ON AND ON.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Reporter: THE TEA PARTY ALSO
HELPED PROPEL REPUBLICAN
GOVERNOR RICK SCOTT TO VICTORY
IN 2010 IN A STATE WHICH
PRESIDENT OBAMA WON TWICE.
SCOTT CAMPAIGNED ON A PLATFORM
OF SMALLER GOVERNMENT AND TAX
CUTS.
BUT THIS TIME AROUND HE'S
SWITCHED THE EMPHASIS TO HOW HIS
ADMINISTRATION IS SPENDING MORE.
>> WE HAVE THE HIGHEST EDUCATION
FUNDING IN THE HISTORY OF THE
STATE.
WE'VE STOPPED CHARLIE CRIST'S
15% YEAR-AFTER-YEAR TUITION
INCREASE.
YOU KNOW WE HAVE A PROGRAM IN
THE STATE WHERE YOU CAN BUY A
PREPAID PLAN FOR A NEWBORN.
IT WENT FROM $100 A MONTH TO
$300 A MONTH UNDER CHARLIE.
WE'VE CUT THAT PRICE IN HALF
FROM IT'S HIGH.
SO THAT'S WHAT THIS ELECTION IS
ABOUT.
>> BOTH CHARLIE CRIST AND RICK
SCOTT HAVE FACED CRITICISM FOR
FLIP-FLOPPING ON KEY ISSUES IN
AN EFFORT TO WIN VOTER SUPPORT.
RICK SCOTT HAS BEEN ATTACKED BY
SOME IN THE TEA PARTY, WHO SAY
HE'S MOVED TO THE CENTER ON
ISSUES LIKE EDUCATION AND
MEDICAID EXPANSION.
>> HE HAS HAD A TOTAL IMAGE
MAKEOVER AND POLICY MAKEOVER
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS.
>> Reporter: AUBREY JEWETT IS A
POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL
FLORIDA.
>> WHEN HE GOT INTO OFFICE, HIS
APPROVAL RATINGS WERE THE LOWEST
IN THE COUNTRY AT ONE POINT.
IT WAS ABOUT 28% AND SO I THINK
HE REALIZED AND HIS TEAM
REALIZED THAT IF WE WANT A SHOT
AT GETTING RE-ELECTED, WE HAVE
TO TRY SOMETHING DIFFERENT SO
THEY BEGAN TO BECOME MORE
MODERATE ON SOME POLICY ISSUES.
>> Reporter: EVERETT WILKINSON
IS BOTH A STATE AND NATIONAL
LEADER IN THE TEA PARTY
MOVEMENT.
HE'S SHARPLY CRITICAL OF SCOTT'S
MOVE TO THE CENTER
>> HE'S HAD SOME SUBSTANTIAL
INCREASES IN THE BUDGET, AND HIS
SUPPORT OF THE MEDICAID
EXPANSION AND SOME OTHER
CRITICAL ISSUES I THINK HAVE
CAUSED MANY OF US PAUSE AND
RESERVATION ON THE TEA PARTY.
>> Reporter: BUT WILKINSON SAYS
HE'LL VOTE FOR RICK SCOTT ANYWAY
BECAUSE HE VIEWS CHARLIE CRIST
AS A POLITICAL OPPORTUNIST.
AUBREY JEWETT SAYS MANY
DEMOCRATS SHARE THAT CONCERN
TOO.
>> EVEN IN THE DEMOCRATIC BASE
THERE'S SOME WORRY THAT THEY ARE
TRYING TO ELECT AS A DEMOCRAT
SOMEONE WHO JUST THREE YEARS AGO
SAID, "I'M PRO-LIFE, I'M PRO-
FAMILY, I'M PRO-GUN, I'M PRO-
BUSINESS.
I'M A CONSERVATIVE REAGAN
REPUBLICAN.
WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT FROM ME
REPUBLICANS?"
>> Reporter: BUT LIFELONG
DEMOCRAT GERALDINE THOMPSON A
STATE LAWMAKER WHO WORKED WITH
REPUBLICAN CRIST ON VOTING
EXPANSION AND EDUCATION BILLS
SAYS SHE IS CONVINCED HIS VALUES
HAVEN'T CHANGED.
>> REGARDLESS OF WHETHER HE'S
HAD AN OR
NAME, HIS BEHAVIOR HAS
DEMONSTRATED THAT HE IS IN TOUCH
WITH THE PEOPLE AND HE'S SOMEONE
WHO CARES ABOUT PEOPLE.
AND THAT'S WHY I'M SUPPORTING
CHARLIE CRIST.
>> Reporter: WHILE BOTH
CANDIDATES ARE OUT SHAKING HANDS
AT LOCAL RESTAURANTS AND FORUMS.
THE BIG-MONEY CAMPAIGN IS BEING
WAGED ON TELEVISION.
THE ELECTION IS EXPECTED TO BE
E D
NASTIEST RACES IN THE COUNTRY.
ALREADY MORE THAN $40 MILLION
HAS BEEN SPENT BY THE CANDIDATES
AND OUTSIDE INTEREST GROUPS AND
THAT NUMBER IS EXPECTED TO CLIMB
TO $150 MILLION.
SO FAR, THE SCOTT SIDE IS
OUTSPENDING CRIST THREE-TO-ONE.
EVEN THOUGH POLLS SHOW A TIGHT
RACE, SCOTT HAS SEEN HIS NUMBERS
IMPROVE SINCE HE BEGAN THE AD
CAMPAIGN.
THE PRO-SCOTT ADS BEAT UP ON
CRIST FOR PLUNGING THE STATE
INTO AN ECONOMIC CRISIS DURING
HIS TENURE AS GOVERNOR.
>> THE NUMBERS TELL THE STORY.
FLORIDA'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
TRIPLED.
800,000 JOBS GONE.
PROPERTY VALUES DOWN.
WHICH GOVERNOR TOOK FLORIDA TO
THE BOTTOM?
CHARLIE CRIST.
WHAT'S WORSE, HE DIDN'T STAY TO
FIX THE MESS, HE RAN AWAY.
>> Reporter: FOR HIS PART, CRIST
TRIES TO REMIND VOTERS OF THE
SCANDAL THAT SURROUNDED SCOTT'S
TENURE AS HEAD OF THE HOSPITAL
GROUP COLUMBIA H.C.A., WHICH WAS
FINED $1.7 BILLION FOR MEDICARE
FRAUD.
>> IN EVERY JOB HE'S EVER HAD,
RICK SCOTT HAS DUCKED THE TRUTH.
WHILE HIS COMPANY WAS COMMITTING
MEDICARE FRAUD, HE PLED THE
FIFTH, 75 TIMES.
AND WOULDN'T EVEN CONFIRM HIS
SIGNATURE.
IT LOOKS LIKE MY SIGNATURE, BUT
WHAT'S YOUR QUESTION?
RICK SCOTT.
TOO SHADY FOR THE SUNSHINE
STATE.
>> Reporter: ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL, THEY HAVE EQUALLY HARSH
WORDS ABOUT THE OTHER.
>> CHARLIE CRIST IS A SLICK
POLITICIAN.
HE'S A SMOOTH TALKER.
>> I THINK THE REASON MY
OPPONENT RUNS NEGATIVE ADS IS TO
TRY TO SUPPRESS THE VOTE.
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT RICK SCOTT
DOES.
>> Reporter: AND BOTH ARE MAKING
A BIG PLAY FOR THE RAPIDLY
GROWING AND INFLUENTIAL LATINO
VOTE.
NEARLY A QUARTER OF FLORIDA'S
POPULATION IS HISPANIC OR
LATINO  AND LATINOS MAKE UP
NEARLY 14% OF THE STATE'S
REGISTERED VOTERS.
TRADITIONALLY, CUBAN AMERICANS
HAVE VOTED FOR REPUBLICANS,
WHILE OTHER LATINO GROUPS VOTED
DEMOCRATIC.
POLITICAL ANALYSTS SAY THOSE
DIVISIONS ARE STARTING TO
SOFTEN..
ALTHOUGH THEY STILL HELD TRUE
FOR VOTERS WE TALKED TO.
>> Reporter: VIVIAN RODRIGUEZ,
OF PUERTO RICAN DESCENT, IS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE FLORIDA
DEMOCRATIC PARTY'S HISPANIC
CAUCUS.
SHE SAYS CRIST IS THE BEST
CHOICE FOR LATINOS SINCE HE
SUPPORTS COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM, EXPANDING
MEDICAID AND INCREASED EDUCATION
FUNDING.
>> CHARLIE CRIST IS 100% ON
BOARD IN PUTTING FORWARD
PROGRAMS THAT WOULD ADD MONEY TO
THESE PROGRAMS.
WHEN WE LOOK AT SICK PAY AND
LABOR UNION RIGHTS AND RIGH
FOR THE WORKING CLASS.
THESE ARE ALL INTERESTS FOR THE
HISPANIC COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: BERTA BRAVO CAME TO
THIS COUNTRY FROM CUBA WHEN SHE
WAS A SMALL CHILD.
SHE NOW OWNS A SMALL BUSINESS
THAT SELLS HIGH-END VERSIONS OF
THE TRADITIONAL CUBAN GUYABERA
SHIRT.
>> IT ORIGINATED IN MY HOMETOWN
IN THE LATE 1800'S.
>> Reporter: SHE RECENTLY HELD A
CAMPAIGN EVENT FOR RICK SCOTT AT
HER STORE BECAUSE SHE SAYS SHE
BELIEVES HE'S BEEN GOOD FOR
FLORIDA BUSINESSES.
>> OVER THE LAST FOUR YEARS MY
BUSINESS HAS GROWN.
I'VE ACQUIRED A BUSINESS
PARTNER.
I HIRED TWO MORE PEOPLE.
YOU SEE THE GROWTH, ESPECIALLY
OVER THE PAST TWO YEARS.
BUSINESS HAS BEEN MUCH BETTER
THAN BEFORE.
>> Reporter: ALTHOUGH TURNOUT IN
A MIDTERM ELECTION IS TYPICALLY
LOW, A MEDICAL MARIJUANA BALLOT
INITIATIVE COULD SPUR INCREASED
PARTICIPATION FROM BOTH
SUPPORTERS AND OPPONENTS.
ONE THING'S FOR SURE, NEITHER
SIDE IS TAKING ANY VOTING GROUP
FOR GRANTED WITH FLORIDA, ONCE
AGAIN, LIVING UP TO ITS
REPUTATION AS THE NATION'S
LARGEST SWING STATE.
>> Woodruff: THE ENTIRE PROCESS
TOOK MORE THAN A YEAR, TWO
ELECTIONS, A BITTERLY CONTESTED
AUDIT OF VOTES AND HAND HOLDING
BY THE UNITED STATES BUT
AFGHANISTAN FINALLY A HAS A NEW
LEADER TO REPLACE HAMID KARZAI.
PRESIDENT ELECT ASHRAF GHANI
WILL LEAD THE NATION AFTER
ENTERING A POWER SHARING
AGREEMENT OVER THE WEEKEND WITH
HIS OPPONENT, ABDULLAH ABDULLAH.
SEAN CARBERRY OF NPR HAS BEEN
COVERING THE DRAWN OUT DRAMA
THROUGHOUT, I SPOKE TO HIM A
SHORT AGO ABOUT HOW THE DEAL
CAME ABOUT AND WHAT IT MEANS FOR
AFGHANISTAN AND THE UNITED
STATES.
>> Woodruff: SEAN CARBERRY,
WELL COME FIRST OF ALL, IS
THIS REAL?
WE WERE TOLD ONCE BEFORE
THEY HAD A DEAL AND IT
TURNED OUT THEY DIDN'T.
AND IF IT IS, WHAT MADE THE
DIFFERENCE?
WELL, YES, THIS ONE IS REAL,
THEY DID SIT DOWN YESTERDAY
AND SIGNED THE DOCUMENTS
TOGETHER.
SO IT'S FINALIZED.
AFTER THAT THE ELECTION
COMMISSION DID ANNOUNCE THAT
ASHRAF GHANI WILL BE THE
NEXT PRESIDENT.
AND IT IS NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR
WHAT FINALLY BROKE THROUGH,
THERE HAD BEEN INCREASING
PRESSURE BY THE U.S. OVER
THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS
SAYING THAT IF THEY DID NOT
REACH A DEAL IT WAS PUTTING
U.S. SUPPORT IN JEOPARDY.
THAT WAS CERTAINLY ONE
ELEMENT OF PRE BUT THE
TWO CANDIDATES HAD BEEN
CONTINUING NEGOTIATIONS AND
IT IS DOWN TO A FEW KEY
DETAILS AND WITHIN THE LAST
WEEK SEEMED TO FINALLY BREAK
THROUGH, GET THOSE DETAILS
SORTED OUT.
THEY SIGNED A DEAL AND THIS
IS GOING FORWARD AT THIS
POINT.
>> SO WHAT IS THE
ARRANGEMENT?
WHAT RESPONSIBILITIES WILL
EACH OF THEM HAVE?
>> WELL, ASHRAF GHANI WILL
BE THE PRESIDENT.
THIS NEW AGREEMENT, THIS
NATIONAL UNITY GOVERNMENT
AGREEMENT CREATES A NEW
POSITION OF EXECUTIVE
C.E.O..
IT'S NOT QUITE AS POWERFUL
AS A PRIME MINISTER BUT IT
STILL HAS A FAIR AMOUNT OF
EXECUTIVE POWERS.
THE C.E.O. WILL SIT ON THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL,
WILL CHAIR A CABINET OF
MINISTERS MEET ON A WEEKLY
BASIS, WILL HAVE OTHER
POWERS.
SO IT IS A SIGNIFICANTLY
EMPOWERED POSITION.
NOW ABDULLAH ABDULLAH
PRESUMABLY WILL TAKE THAT
POSITION BUT IT'S UP TO HIM
TO NOMINATE SOMEONE FOR THAT
POSITION.
HE'S YET TO MAKE AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHO HE WILL
NOMINATE FOR THAT POSITION.
IN ADDITION, THIS DEAL DOES
DIVIDE UP SOME OF THE
NATIONAL SECURITY POSTS,
SOME OF THE KEY CABINET
POSITIONS, SO IT IS A
SIGNIFICANT SHARING OF POWER
BETWEEN THE ABDULLAH AND
GHANI CAMPS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT
THEIR RESPECTIVE POLITICAL
COALITIONS, THE POWERFUL
FIGURE SUPPORTING EACH ONE
OF THEM.
ARE THEY ON BOARD WITH THIS?
>> APPARENTLY THEY ARE AT
THIS POINT BECAUSE THAT
SEEMED TO BE ONE OF THE MAIN
STICKING POINTS OVER THE
LAST MONTH OR SO WAS THAT
POWERFUL BACKERS OF BOTH
CANDIDATES WERE RESISTING TO
SOME OF THE TERMS OF THE
AGREEMENT, PARTICULARLY ON
AN BULLA'S SIDE HE HAD SOME
VERY VOCAL SUPPORTERS WHO
WERE THREATENING TO GO
OUTSIDE THE DEAL THAT WERE
THREATENING TO LAUNCH
PROTESTS, OCCUPY GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS IF THE TERMS WERE
NOT MET.
AND ONE OF THE MOST POWERFUL
BACKERS OF ABDULLAH DID
RELEASE A STATEMENT SINCE
THE DEAL WAS SIGNED SAYING
THAT HE SUPPORTS IT.
SO IT DOES APPEAR THAT THEY
HAVE BROUGHT ON BOARD ALL OF
THEIR BACKERS.
NOW THE QUESTION REMAINS,
WILL THEY STAY ON BOARD.
BECAUSE THERE IS STILL A LOT
OF INTERNAL RIVALRIES HERE.
ABDULLAH AND GHANI DON'T
NECESSARILY HAVE THE
GREATEST HISTORY OF WORKING
RELATIONSHIP.
THERE HAVE BEEN TENSION AND
ANIMOSITIES BETWEEN THEM
OVER THE YEARS.
CERTAINLY SOME OF THEIR
BACKERS DON'T GET ALONG WITH
EACH OTHER.
SO THIS IS ONE OF THE MAIN
CONCERNS.
THEY'VE SIGNED A DEAL FOR
NOW BUT HOW LONG WILL THIS
DEAL LAST?
WILL THERE BE SPLINTERING IN
THE FUTURE ONCE THEY GET NOT
REAL NUTS AND BOLTS OF
PUTTING THIS GOVERNMENT
TOGETHER AND TRYING TO
GOVERN.
>> Woodruff: AND SEAN, THAT
WAS FOREQUESTION I HAD.
IS WILL IT LAST?
I SAW A TALIBAN STATEMENT
TODAY OR YESTERDAY CALLING
IT A SHAM.
AND FINALLY, IMPORTANTLY,
EFFECT OF THIS ON THE UNITED
STATES WHICH STILL HAS
TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN.
>> RIGHT.
THE TALIBAN HAVE SAID THAT
THEY WILL CONTINUE TO FIGHT.
THEY WILL OPPOSE THIS NEW
GOVERNMENT.
BOTH ABDULLAH AND GHANI HAVE
SAID THEY WANT TO TRY TO
REACH OUT TO THE TALIBAN.
THEY DO RECOGNIZE THAT THERE
WILL NOT BE A MILITARY
SOLUTION HERE.
THERE HAS TO BE A POLITICAL
SOLUTION.
BUT AGAIN T DOES GET BACK TO
THIS QUESTION OF WHETHER OR
NOT THIS NATIONAL UNITY
GOVERNMENT CAN MOVE FORWARD,
CAN GOVERN, CAN REFORM OR
WILL IT SPEND A LOT OF ITS
TIME DEALING WITH POLITICAL
INFIGHTING AND ONGOING POWER
STRUGGLES AMONG THESE TWO
CAMPS THAT ARE COMING
TOGETHER NOW.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THE EFFECT
ON THE U.S.?
>> WELL, THE U.S. HAS SAID
THAT THEY ARE HAPPY WITH
THIS DEAL.
THEY SAY IT'S A NEW CHAPTER
FOR U.S. AFGHAN RELATIONS.
AND THEY EXPECT THAT WITHIN
48 HOURS OF THE INAUGURATION
OF PRESIDENT GHANI,  WILL
SIGN A SECURITY AGREEMENT
WITH THE U.S. THAT WILL
ALLOW TROOPS TO STAY BEYOND
THE END OF THIS YEAR.
SO THE U.-- THE U.S. IS
PRAISING THIS AND LOOKING
FORWARD TO A NEW CHAPTER IN
RELATIONS TO AFGHANISTAN.
>> Woodruff: SEAN CARBERRY
REPORTING FOR US FROM
WEOMEUDY.
>> Ifill: THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION REPORTED TODAY THAT
THE EBOLA VIRUS HAS NOW KILLED
MORE THAN 2,800 PEOPLE IN WEST
AFRICA.
THE MAJORITY OF DEATHS HAVE BEEN
IN LIBERIA, GUINEA AND SIERRA
LEONE.
BUT THE DEADLY ILLNESS HAS BEEN
RELATIVELY CONTAINED IN NEARBY,
AND MUCH LARGER, NIGERIA, WHICH
COUNTS 21 CASES AND ONLY NINE
DEATHS.
TONIGHT, SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
FRED DE SAM LAZARO TAKES A LOOK
AT HOW NIGERIA HAS CONTROLLED
EBOLA'S SPREAD.
FRED'S REPORTING IS A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDERTOLD
STORIES PROJECT AT SAINT MARY'S
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA.
>> Reporter: NOT MUCH MOVES IN A
HURRY IN NIGERIA'S COMMERCIAL
CAPITAL, LAGOS; ALSO AFRICA'S
MOST POPULOUS CITY.
AND BASIC SERVICES, LIKE ROADS
AND COVERED SEWERS, HAVE YET TO
REACH SLUMS LIKE OTUMARA.
BUT THE EBOLA MESSAGE HAS.
WHAT IT IS, WHERE TO REPORT IT,
HOW TO PREVENT IT.
>> WASH YOUR HANDS ALL THE TIME!
>> Reporter: NIGERIA'S EBOLA
RESPONSE HAS BEEN COMPREHENSIVE
IN COMMUNITIES AND THE MEDIA.
THERE'S TEMPERATURE SCREENING AT
ALL THE COUNTRY'S ENTRY AND EXIT
POINTS, FEVER IS AN EARLY
WARNING SIGN, AND EXTENSIVE
SURVEILLANCE BY PUBLIC HEALTH
WORKERS.
IT'S DRIVEN BY SOUND
EPIDEMIOLOGY AND, THE AMERICAN
CONSUL IN LAGOS, JEFFREY HAWKINS
SAYS, FEAR.
>> ONE THING THAT PEOPLE REALLY
DON'T WANT TO HEAR IS EBOLA AND
LAGOS IN THE SAME SENTENCE.
THIS IS A CITY OF 20 MILLION
PEOPLE, AND A MAJOR URBAN
OUTBREAK HERE WOULD HAVE BEEN
APOCALYPTIC.
BUT THE RESPONSE WAS QUICK.
>> Reporter: ONE EARLY LEADER OF
THAT RESPONSE WAS BABANGIDA
FASHOLA, GOVERNOR OF LAGOS
STATE, WHICH INCLUDES THE CITY.
>> FEAR IS A VERY GOOD THING TO
GET PEOPLE TO ACT FAST.
>> Reporter: THEY GOT ON IT
RIGHT AFTER THE FIRST CONFIRMED
CASE OF EBOLA, IN LATE JULY.
A LIBERIAN AMERICAN TRAVELER
FELL ILL AT THE LAGOS AIRPORT.
HIS CIRCLE OF CONTACTS WAS
LIMITED: HEALTH WORKERS WHO
TREATED HIM AND THEIR CONTACTS.
ONE OF THEM CARRIEHE
INFECTION TO THE SOUTHERN CITY
OF PORT HARCOURT, CAUSING A
SECOND OUTBREAK.
>> WITHIN A QUESTION OF JUST A
FEW DAYS WE HAD AS MANY AS 500
CONTACTS THAT WERE BEING TRACED,
JUST TO CAST A WIDE NET AND TO
ENSURE THAT ANYBODY WHO HAD
CONTACT WITH A CASE IS UNDER OUR
PURVIEW, TAKING TEMPERATURES,
ASKING IF THEY HAD ANY SYMPTOMS.
>> Reporter: DR FAISAL SHUIAB,
OF NIGERIA'S HEALTH MINISTRY,
HEADS THE EBOLA COMMAND CENTER.
>> DOES EVERYONE HAVE A COPY OF
THE ACTION TRACKER?
>> Reporter: THE RESPONSE TEAM
INCLUDES SEVERAL INTERNATIONAL
AGENCIES THAT HAVE BEEN IN
NIGERIA FOR YEARS FIGHTING OTHER
DISEASES, LIKE MALARIA, H.I.V.
AND POLIO.
THEY QUICKLY RE-DEPLOYED.
DR. NANCY KNIGHT, WITH THE U.S
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION, SAYS THE C.D.C. HAD
EARLIER TRAINED MANY FIELD
EPIDEMIOLOGISTS HERE.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HAS
REALLY HELPED KEEP THE FEAR IN
CHECK AND TO KEEP IT FROM
TURNING INTO WIDESPREAD PANIC
HAS BEEN THE NUMBER OF BOOTS ON
THE GROUND.
WE'VE HAD BETWEEN LAGOS AND PORT
HARCOURT MORE THAN 1000 PEOPLE
THAT HAVE BEEN WORKING ON
CONTAINING THE EPIDEMIC.
>> Reporter: DESPITE NIGERIA'S
MANY PROBLEMS SECTARIAN
VIOLENCE, BOKO HARAM INSURGENTS
KIDNAPPING SCHOOLGIRLS, THE
COUNTRY HAS A MORE DEVELOPED
PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM THAN ITS
SMALLER NEIGHBORS REELING FROM
EBOLA.
HAVING INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS ON
HAND ALSO HELPED REASSURE KEY
POLITICAL LEADERS LIKE LAGOS'
GOVERNOR.
>> Reporter: THE AID GROUP
DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS HAS
TRAINED HEALTH WORKERS ON
HANDLING PATIENTS, ON USING THE
AIRTIGHT PERSONAL PROTECTIVE
EQUIPMENT.
THE GROUP HAS BUILT ISOLATION
CENTERS IN LAGOS AND PORT
HARCOURT THAT WOULD HANDLE A
FRESH OUTBREAK.
FOR NOW, THERE'S JUST ONE
SUSPECTED CASE LEFT.
THERE MAY NOT BE PANIC BUT
THERE'S STILL A LOT OF STIGMA
SURROUNDING EBOLA.
AS OUTSIDERS AND A CAMERA CREW
WE WERE NOT ALLOWED TO GO NEAR
THE CONTACT TRACERS.
THE PUBLIC HEALTH WORKERS WHO
KEEP TABS ON ANYONE WHO CAME IN
CONTACT WITH ANYONE INFECTED
WITH EBOLA.
DENNIS AKAGA KNOWS FIRST HAND
ABOUT STIGMA.
>> I LOST MY JOB WHILE I WAS
TAKING CARE OF JUSTINA.
>> Reporter: AND HE LOST
JUSTINA, HIS FIANCE WHO WAS TWO
MONTHS PREGNANT.
ON HER FIRST DAY AT A NEW JOB,
THE 32 YEAR OLD NURSE'S FIRST
PATIENT JUST HAPPENED TO BE THAT
FIRST EBOLA CASE, THE LIBERIAN
AMERICAN.
AKAGA TOO BECAME INFECTED, BUT
HE PULLED THROUGH.
SURVIVORS OF EBOLA BECOME IMMUNE
AND ARE NO LONGER CONTAGIOUS.
BUT THAT HASN'T HELPED DENNIS
AKAGA.
>> EBOLA IS NOT A DEATH THREAT,
I WOULD NOT HAVE LOST MY JOB IF
THERE WAS THE RIGHT INFORMATION
OUT THERE.
>> Reporter: EARLY DETECTION HAS
HELPED THE SURVIVAL RATE IN
NIGERIA.
FEWER THAN HALF THE CASES
RESULTED IN DEATH.
BUT THE STIGMA ONLY WORSENS THE
PUBLIC HEALTH THREAT, SAYS DR.
NDADILNASIYA WAZIRI, WHO HEADS
THE CONTACT TRACING EFFORT.
>> A LOT OF CONTACTS COULDN'T
EVEN COME OUT TO GET FOOD IN
THEIR COMMUNITIES BECAUSE THEY
WERE BEING STIGMATIZED.
THAT'S A BIG WORRY BECAUSE THAT
WILL MAKE PEOPLE TO HIDE, NOT TO
COME OUT AND REPORT BEING
SUSPECTS OR CONTACTS TO SUSPECTS
BECAUSE THEY FEAR BEING
STIGMATIZED.
>> Reporter: NIGERIA'S
INFLUENTIAL FILM INDUSTRY HAS
STEPPED IN TO HELP.
>> THIS IS LIKE A U.F.O., YOU
KNOW, SUDDENLY DESCENDED ON
NIGERIA, YOU KNOW, AND WE HAD TO
DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: TUNDE KELANI, A TOP
DIRECTOR, SAYS NOLLYWOOD'S
LEADING LIGHTS CAME TOGETHER IN
RECORD TIME, RESPONDING HE SAYS
TO THE BIGGEST EXISTENTIAL
THREAT ANYONE HERE HAS FELT.
>> I THINK THEY RESPONDED VERY
WELL.
WE PUT TOGETHER A LIST OF ABOUT
18 OF THESE CELEBRITIES.
>> Reporter: NOW, HE'S THINKING,
WHY NOT EXPAND THE IDEA BEYOND
THIS LENS ON EBOLA EFFORT?
>> I THINK THE PARTNERSHIP LENS
ON EBOLA IS ALREADY THINKING
ABOUT LENS ON ANYTHING THAT CAN
COME ALONG, FOR INSTANCE WE CAN
DO LENS ON POLIO, LENS ON
MALARIA.
>> Reporter: IN THE DISTRESSED
OTUMARA NEIGHBORHOOD ALAJA JATTO
IS ALSO THINKING BEYOND EBOLA.
>> SHE HAS SOMETHING TO TELL THE
GOVERNMENT.
THEY DON'T HAVE PIPED WATER,
THAT THE ROADS ARE BAD, THERE'S
NO DRAINAGE, THEY NEED
DEVELOPMENT.
>> Reporter: WHETHER THE
GOVERNMENT DELIVERS ON THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS IS UNCLEAR.
BUT THE EBOLA CAMPAIGN WILL
CONTINUE AND ON HIGH ALERT
THAT'S EVEN THE NUMBER OF
CONTACTS BEING TRACKED IS NOW
DOWN TO ABOUT 300.
EACH DAY MORE PEOPLE CROSS THE
CRITICAL 21 DAYS SINCE THEIR
EXPOSURE TO THE VIRUS.
THE WINDOW IN WHICH SYMPTOMS CAN
OCCUR.
IRONICALLY, THIS SUCCESS IS A
WORRY.
DR. FAISAL SHUAIB FEARS NIGERIA
COULD ATTRACT EBOLA PATIENTS
FROM NEARBY COUNTRIES LIKE
SIERRA LEONE, LIBERIA AND
GUINEA.
>> SOME OF THESE CASES MIGHT
FEEL THAT WELL NIGERIA HAS GOOD
CONTROL, WE'VE HAD RECORD LEVELS
OF PEOPLE SURVIVING EBOLA VIRAL
DISEASE AND THEY MIGHT START
FEELING WELL, THIS IS THE PLACE
TO COME
>> Reporter: THE U.N. HAS CALLED
EBOLA A THREAT TO GLOBAL
SECURITY AND MANY PEOPLE HERE
SAY NIGERIA, THE REGIONAL
ECONOMIC HUB, A NATION OF 170
MILLION, WILL REMAIN THE MOST
VULNERABLE FRONTIER.
>> Woodruff: THE PROSPECT OF AN
EVEN GREATER EBOLA EPIDEMIC IS
KEEPING HEALTH OFFICIALS ALL
MERICAN,ICA AWAKE AT NIGHT.
IS COUNTRY DIRECTOR FOR THE
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL IN
KENYA.
HE AND MEMBERS OF HIS TEAM HAVE
BEEN IN LIBERIA AND THE OTHER
AFFECTED COUNTRIES IN RECENT
WEEKS.
JEFFREY BROWN SPOKE TO HIM THIS
WEEKEND IN NAIROBI, KENYA.
>> Brown: DR. KEVIN DECOCK,
THANKS FOR TALKING WITH US
AM THERE IS A REPORT THAT A
NEW ESTIMATE IS IN THE WORKS
THAT MAY I HAVE A WORST CASE
SCENARIO-- SCENARIO AS HIGH
AS HALF A MILLION PEOPLE AM
YOU CAN COMMENT ON THAT?
>> YES.
THE DOUBLING TIME OF NEW
CASES OF EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE
IN LIBERIA IS ABOUT EVERY 20
DAYS.
SO THERE IS A TOTAL NUMBER
OF CASES DOUBLING ABOUT
EVERY THREE WEEKS.
WE'RE NOW UP TO 3, 4,000
CASES, REPORTED CASES WHICH
MAY BE A SLIGHT
UNDERESTIMATE.
SO A VERY RAPIDLY WE DO
EXPECT TO SEE SOME TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF CASES, AND
QUITE POSSIBLY BY THE END OF
THE YEAR, EARLY NEXT YEAR,
SOME HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
UNLESS THIS IS-- UNLESS THIS
IS SLOWED DOWN.
>> Brown: THIS IS
EXPONENTIAL GROWTH.
SO AT THIS POINT THIS IS OUT
OF CONTROL?
>> AT THE MOMENT, THE
INCREASE IN CASES HAS BEEN
DESCRIBED AS EXPONENTIAL,
YES.
AND YES, CLEARLY THE
EPIDEMIC IN WEST AFRICA IN
THE THREE MOST AFFECTED
COUNTRIES, LIBERIA, SIERRA
LEONE AND GUINEA, I DO THINK
IT'S OUT OF CONTROL AND MANY
SENIOR LEADERS HAVE SAID
THAT.
>> Brown: YOU KNOW LIBERIA
AND THESE COUNTRIES WELL.
AND YOU WERE THERE FAIRLY
RECENTLY.
THESE ARE COUNTRIES THAT
HAVE LITTLE HEALTH
INFRASTRUCTURE TO BEGIN WITH,
RIGHT?
WHAT DID YOU SEE?
WHAT DID YOU SEE THERE?
>> I THINK IT NEEDS TO BE
EMPHASIZED THAT THESE ARE
AMONGST THE WEAKEST STATES
IN THE WORLD.
IF YOU LOOK AT PER-CAPITA
INCOME, LIBERIA PER-CAPITA
INCOME IS LESS THAN 500
DOLLARS PER YEAR.
THE LITERACY RATES IN
LIBERIA IS ABOUT 60%.
THESE ARE VERY FRAGILE
COUNTRIES.
SIERRA LEONE AND LIBERIA
BOTH HAVE COME OUT OF CIVIL
WARS, SO INFRASTRUCTURE IS
WEAK, SYSTEMS ARE WEAK, AND
IT'S A VERY DIFFICULT
WORKING ENVIRONMENT.
AND FOR ANY COUNTRY, AN
OUTBREAK LIKE THIS WOULD BE
A CHALLENGE.
BUT FOR THESE COUNTRIES IT'S
VERY SERIOUS.
>> Brown: CAN YOU GIVE ME AN
EXAMPLE OF WHAT YOU SAW
THERE, TO EXEMPT FEW THE
KIND OF CHALLENGE FOR HEALTH
WORKERS?
>> THE HEALTH WORKERS HAVE
PAID A VERY HEAVY TOLL IN
THIS OUTBREAK.
IN LIBERIA ABOUT AT LEAST
15% OF CASES OF EBOLA VIRUS
DISEASE HAVE BEEN IN HEALTH
WORKERS.
AND LIBERIA OF COURSE HAS
NOT MANY HEALTH WORKERS TO
START WITH.
LESS THAN 200 DOCTORS, FOR
EXAMPLE, WELL UNDER 200
DOCTORS AND QUITE A FEW HAVE
DIED.
>> THE EPIDEMIC HAS REALLY
HAD A MAJOR EFFECT ON THE
HEALTH-CARE SYSTEM, WITH
MANY HOSPITALS ABANDONED.
BUT IT'S THE SECONDARY
AFFECT WE'RE ALSO BEGINNING
TO SEE.
THE ECONOMY GRINDING DOWN,
THE HEALTH-CARE SYSTEM
HALTED.
THE FEAR IN SOCIETY, AND SO
ON AND SO FORTH.
SO THE SECONDARY AFFECTS OF
ALL OF THIS ARE VERY, VERY
SERIOUS AS WELL.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE
LEGAL OF-- LEVEL OF DISTRUST
AMONG PEOPLE THERE, A FEAR
THAT THIS IS A WESTERN PLOT,
OR THAT IT DOESN'T REALLY
EXIST.
HOW MUCH IS THAT A CONCERN?
HOW MUCH IS THAT AN
IMPEDIMENT TO GETTING THINGS
DONE?
>> IT IS AN IMPEDIMENT.
I THINK WE'RE ALL AWARE OF
THE TRAGIC DEATHS OF
COLLEAGUES IN GUINEA JUST A
FEW DAYS AGO.
PEOPLE WHO WERE KIDNAPPED
AND ENDED UP BEING KILLED.
IT IS A TREMENDOUS OBSTACLE.
IT'S GOTTEN BETTER IN MANY
PLACES.
BUT IT REMAINS A PROBLEM,
PARTICULARLY IN SOME OF THE
RURAL AREAS, IN THE THREE
BORDER AREAS.
AND THEN IT'S SORT OF-- IT
ALSO IS ACCOMPANIED BY A
SORT OF OPPOSITE REACTION
WHICH IS TREMENDOUS
IMPATIENCE THAT MORE IS NOT
BEING DONE.
>> Brown: YOU CAN UNDERSTAND
THAT.
>> WHICH YOU CAN UNDERSTAND
SO IT'S A DIFFICULT WORKING
ENVIRONMENT.
>> Brown: WE'RE SITTING HERE
IN NAIROBI FAR AWAY, HOW
MUCH OF A SENSE OF FEAR,
CONCERN, EVEN PSYCHOLOGICAL
CONCERN DO YOU SENSE HERE?
>> THERE'S A LOW LEVEL OF
CONCERN.
AND I THINK THE GOVERNMENT
IS DOING THE RIGHT THINGS.
THEY CERTAINLY ARE INVESTING
IN PREPAREDNESS, IN
SCREENING OF THE AIRPORT, OF
INCOMING TRAVELERS,
PARTICULARLY FROM WEST
AFRICA, IN STRENGTHENING
SURVEILLANCE AND
PREPAREDNESS IN HOSPITALS.
HAVING AN ISOLATION FACILITY
READY AND SO ON.
SO THE RIGHT THINGS ARE
BEING DONE.
I THINK WHAT THIS WHOLE
EXPERIENCE DEMONSTRATES IS
THAT WE REALLY ARE AN
INTERCONNECTED WORLD AND THE,
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE TO PAY
ATTENTION TO THE WEAKEST
LINKS IN THE CHAIN.
BECAUSE VULNERABILITY IS
SHARED BETWEEN US ALL
BECAUSE OF THAT.
>> Brown: BECAUSE THE
GOVERNMENT IN KENYA HAS
STOPPED FLIGHTS BETWEEN HERE
AND THE WEST AFRICAN
COUNTRIES.
BUT PEOPLE CAN STILL GO VIA
OTHER COUNTRIES, RIGHT.
>> YES.
AND THE STOPPING OF FLIGHTS
IS SOMETHING THAT NEEDS TO
BE DISCUSSED,
>> Brown: DISCUSSED OR
CHANGED.
>> CHANGED.
>> THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION AND CDC AND
OTHER PUBLIC HEALTH
AUTHORITIES, YOU KNOW, SAYS N
THING TO DO.
IT'S UNDERSTANDABLE BECAUSE
IT GIVES A FALSE SENSE OF
SECURITY.
WE, YOU KNOW, WE CANNOT
CLOSE OUR BORDERS AND LIVE
LIKE AN ISLAND.
PLUS THE FACT, ACTUALLY,
THIS IS NOW, IF THE FLIGHTS
DO STOP OR IF THOSE THAT
HAVE STOPPED DON'T
RECOMMENCE T ACTUALLY
COMPLICATED THE RESPONSE TO
THE EPIDEMIC BECAUSE WE HAVE
TO GET PEOPLE AND SUPPLIES
INTO THESE COUNTRIES.
>> Brn: THE WORST, I GUESS,
A TRULY WORST-CASE SCENARIO
THAT SOME PEOPLE LOOK AT
WOULD BE A SPREAD TO OTHER
MAJOR CITIES OUTSIDE THAT
REGION, TO PLACES LIKE THIS,
NAIROBI.
>> I THINK THE WORST-CASE
CENARIO WOULD BE
EXPORETATION OF INFECTION
INTO SOME OTHER URBAN CENTER,
THAT IS NOT WELL EQUIPPED TO
ADDRESS THE EPIDEMIC.
I THINK KENYA IS TRYING TO
ASSURE THE APPROPRIATE
PREPAREDNESS.
BUT THERE, OF COURSE, MANY
VULNERABLE CITIES ACROSS THE
CONTINENT OR EVEN OTHER
PARTS OF THE WORLD.
>> AS WE SIT HERE HOW
CONCERNED ARE ABOUT THE
ABILITY TO CONTROL THIS OR
ITS SPREAD?
>> I THINK WE CAN CONTROL
THIS.
BUT I THINK WE'RE IN THIS
FOR QUITE A LONG TIME.
WE'RE IN THIS FOR A LONG
HAUL AND I THINK A LOT MORE
NEEDS TO BE DONE.
>> ALI DR. KEVIN
DECOCK OF  CDC IN KENYA,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THOUSANDS MORE SYRIAN KURDS
STREAMED ACROSS THE BORDER INTO
TURKEY, FLEEING ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS.
A FEDERAL PROSECUTOR SAID THE
MAN WHO ALLEGEDLY JUMPED THE
WHITE HOUSE FENCE FRIDAY NIGHT,
AND MADE IT TO THE FRONT DOOR
WITH A KNIFE, HAD MORE THAN 800
ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION IN HIS CAR.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, TERMINALLY ILL
PATIENTS IN NEW YORK AND NEW
JERSEY CAN EXPECT TO SPEND
LONGER HOSPITAL STAYS THAN JUST
ABOUT ANYWHERE ELSE IN THE
COUNTRY.
WHAT'S BEHIND THIS DISPARITY?
AND HOW CAN DOCTORS MAKE END-OF-
LIFE MORE COMFORTABLE FOR THEIR
PATIENTS?
READ A NEW REPORT FROM KAISER
HEALTH NEWS AND WNYC, ON OUR
RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WORLD LEADERS
CONVERGE ON NEW YORK FOR THE
UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
OUR OWN MARGARET WARNER IS
THERE.
PLUS, WE'LL EXAMINE THE CENTRAL
TOPIC OF THE FIRST DAY: CLIMATE
CHANGE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.